# test
test

Business Accounting Assignment
The assignment will contribute 70 per cent of the assessment. It will be in the form of a report and should be typed or word - processed; it should comprise no more than 1,500 words.
Assignment task
You have been appointed to the financial team of a substantial company. You have been asked by the board to prepare an analytical review of the financial performance, position and reporting of a company, listed on an internationally recognised stock exchange and using the most recent published financial statements (annual rather than half-year or other interim statements) and other information available, either in the public domain or from within the company.
You MAY choose the standpoint from which this report is made (competitor, investor, potential acquirer, supplier, customer, landlord or lessee) and, if you do so, should identify this in the introduction to the report. This is in order to give the report some ‘focus’ and does NOT mean that you should limit your analysis purely to factors specifically of interest to the type of organisation you represent.
You may NOT choose Wm Morrison or Pace – the companies used as illustrations in the course material. You should NOT choose a private company or a subsidiary company or division of a larger group, since these entities are not subject to the ‘open market’ disciplines of a publicly listed company and this may give rise to business practices, transactions and accounting, which, while perfectly legal, are nevertheless ‘abnormal’. You should also NOT choose banks, insurance companies or other financial services businesses, they are almost always subject to different, enhanced, forms of regulation, which may often result in specialised forms of reporting and disclosure, which, in turn, may add additional problems for analysis.
You will have to obtain copies of the published financial statements; this process is itself a significant exercise in investigating sources of financial information. If you are studying this module while based outside the UK, you may make your company selection from any internationally recognised stock Exchange. If you are studying within the UK, we recommend that you select a company listed on the London Stock Exchange. You will need to identify sufficient appropriate companies to use for comparison during your analysis. There are three common methods of obtaining published financial Statements.
 If you are a shareholder or employee, you may be sent a copy in the ordinary course of events.
- A direct approach by phone or letter to the Company Secretary’s office or the Shareholder/Investor Relations Department will usually result in a copy being sent. Most companies now make their financial statements available on the internet via their website, - search in Google for “<company name> investor relations (or similar) – from where you can usually download the statements themselves or apply online for a hard copy of the ‘glossy’ booklet to be sent to you.
 The financial press of your home country may facilitate this. For example, the UK site for the Financial Times offers downloadable financial statements and other information for many companies – often in several formats. The URL for this is www.ft.com/ir.
￼￼[1]
This is more an exercise in using financial information intelligently rather than computing ratios. You may choose to draw on financial databases, such as the FAME financial analysis package on the computer network (for access refer to Blackboard and the Library), which will enable the
selection and extraction of company financial data. These data can then be analysed using the package or downloaded and analysed using spreadsheets or other techniques. Other sources of information maintained in the library (and online) are the Financial Times, FT.com website and Business Ratio and Key Note reports; other special reports, for example those circulated by the broking arms of financial services companies, may also be available by direct request from the relevant organisations. If you experience difficulty in accessing these resources, consult the Library staff, and advise your module leader and/or group tutor that you have done so.
There are also many websites maintained by financial services organisations (e.g. Morningstar, Bloomberg, etc) which often freely provide useful information and commentary.
Content
The report should address at least the following (weightings indicated are for guidance only and need not be reflected precisely in the final word count)
 Analysis of the financial strengths and weaknesses revealed by the financial statements. Key ratios (e.g. profitability, liquidity, asset utilisation and gearing – as discussed in Units 4 and 5 of the Study Book and outlined in chapter 6 of the module textbook) should be compared against both prior years and with two suitably selected companies or other peer group/industry information. Note that while it is impossible entirely to separate the financial aspects from the strategic and wider management issues, the primary focus of the assignment remains financial. Please also note that the figures you use in your analysis should be taken from the most recent complete set of annual financial statements (NOT the interim statements) and should be those referred to in the statements as ‘Consolidated’ or ‘Group’ rather than any denoted as ‘Company’ or ‘Company only’. (80%)
 Review of the market perception of the company in terms of stock price performance and response from the analyst community (you will need to employ the stock market performance indicators such as EPS, dividend yield, etc as discussed in the module). (20%)
The report should include the following elements.
 A key point or executive summary of conclusions (preferably at the beginning of the report) (this
IS included in the word - count).
 Graphical illustration, where appropriate (graphs and tables are NOT included in the word count). Resist the temptation to relegate charts and tables to the appendices. You should place the ‘bulk’ data there and extract ‘mini’ tables/charts/graphs, placing them in the body of your report at the appropriate places to illustrate the points you are making. In particular, when dealing with the second task above, you should use a chart of share/stock price movements
￼[2]
during the period under review and map significant rises or falls in the price against key events affecting the company in the review period.
 A bibliography of sources of information and theoretical material used (this is NOT included in the word count). It is essential to give acknowledgement of any external sources, making it clear whether the reference is being directly quoted or indirectly consulted. Not to do this may constitute plagiarism, which is considered a serious offence against academic integrity – and against which the official sanctions are severe!
Detailed tables, extracts or copies of financial information should be relegated to appendices (which are NOT included in the word count) but may be referred to in the body of the report.
Please note the appendices must not exceed 15 pages. If you have substantial financial documents that you wish to include, then refer the reader to the appropriate website(s).
Please note that you are NOT being asked to produce a marketing or Strategic analysis of the selected company – and you will not receive credit for doing so! Neither will credit be given for extensive sections
of background material. The principal focus of the report should be on the operational financial analysis and the strengths and weaknesses it reveals. Your work should focus on financial issues and be grounded in the published financial report.
Developing good academic practice Harvard referencing style
Students will be required to provide references to the sources used to produce work. This shows what students have read, supports the arguments and acknowledges the work of others. The referencing system used in this programme is called Harvard.
The reference consists of two parts:
 A citation in the text. This appears next to the information you have used. It consists of the
family name of the author followed by the year of publication. Each citation is matched to a
reference.
 The reference goes in a reference list at the end of your work. The list is in alphabetical order. It
contains the full details of all of the sources referred to in the text.
￼[3]
